In this module we'll consider the basics of statistics. But before we start, we'll give you a broad sense of what
the course is about and how it's organized. Are you new to Coursera or still deciding whether this is the course
for you? Then make sure to check out the 'Course introduction' and 'What to expect from this course' sections 
below, so you'll have the essential information you need to decide and to do well in this course! If you have 
any questions about the course format, deadlines or grading, you'll probably find the answers here. Are you a 
Coursera veteran and ready to get started? Then you might want to skip ahead to the first course
topic: 'Exploring data'. You can always check the general information later. Veterans and newbies alike: Don't 
forget to introduce yourself in the 'meet and greet' forum!

Course introduction

Hi there!10 min
Welcome to Basic Statistics!3 min
How to navigate this course10 min
How to contribute10 min
What to expect from this course

General info - What will I learn in this course?10 min
Course format - How is this course structured?10 min
Requirements - What resources do I need?10 min
Grading - How do I pass this course?10 min
Team - Who created this course?10 min
Honor Code - Integrity in this course10 min
Useful literature and documents10 min
Exploring Data
Matthijs Rooduijn
Emiel van Loon
In this first module, we’ll introduce the basic concepts of descriptive statistics. We’ll talk about cases and variables, and we’ll explain how you can order them in a so-called data matrix. We’ll discuss various levels of measurement and we’ll show you how you can present your data by means of tables and graphs. We’ll also introduce measures of central tendency (like mode, median and mean) and dispersion (like range, interquartile range, variance and standard deviation). We’ll not only tell you how to interpret them; we’ll also explain how you can compute them. Finally, we’ll tell you more about z-scores. In this module we’ll only discuss situations in which we analyze one single variable. This is what we call univariate analysis. In the next module we will also introduce studies in which more variables are involved.

More
Data and visualisation

Research in this MOOC10 min
Practice Quiz: Survey18 questions
Resume
1.02 Data matrix and frequency table6 min
1.03 Graphs and shapes of distributions7 min
Data and visualisation10 min
1.01 Cases, variables and levels of measurement7 min
Measures of central tendency and dispersion

Measures of central tendency and dispersion10 min
1.04 Mode, median and mean6 min
1.05 Range, interquartile range and box plot7 min
1.06 Variance and standard deviation5 min
Z-scores and example

Z-scores and example10 min
1.07 Z-scores4 min
1.08 Example6 min
Review

Transcripts - Exploring data10 min
Quiz: Exploring Data11 questions
About the R labs10 min
R lab - Getting started (part 1)1h
R lab - Getting started (part 2)1h
R lab - Exploring data1h
