
Probability Distributions
Matthijs Rooduijn
Emiel van Loon
Probability distributions form the core of many statistical calculations. 
They are used as mathematical models to represent some random phenomenon and 
subsequently answer statistical questions about that phenomenon. This module starts 
by explaining the basic properties of a probability distribution, highlighting how 
it quantifies a random variable and also pointing out how it differs between discrete
and continuous random variables. Subsequently the cumulative probability distribution 
is introduced and its properties and usage are explained as well. In a next lecture it 
is shown how a random variable with its associated probability distribution can be 
characterized by statistics like a mean and variance, just like observational data. 
The effects of changing random variables by multiplication or addition on these statistics
are explained as well.The lecture thereafter introduces the normal distribution, starting 
by explaining its functional form and some general properties. Next, the basic usage of the
normal distribution to calculate probabilities is explained. And in a final lecture the binomial
distribution, an important probability distribution for discrete data, is introduced and further
explained. By the end of this module you have covered quite some ground and have a solid basis 
to answer the most frequently encountered statistical questions. Importantly, the fundamental
knowledge about probability distributions that is presented here will also provide a solid 
basis to learn about inferential statistics in the next modules.

More
Probability distributions

Probability distributions10 min
4.01 Random variables and probability distributions6 min
4.02 Cumulative probability distributions5 min
Mean and variance of a random variable

Mean and variance of a random variable10 min
4.03 The mean of a random variable4 min
4.04 Variance of a random variable6 min
The normal distribution

The normal distribution10 min
4.05 Functional form of the normal distribution6 min
4.06 The normal distribution: probability calculations5 min
4.07 The standard normal distribution8 min
The binomial distribution

The binomial distribution10 min
4.08 The binomial distribution8 min
Review

Transcripts - Probability distributions10 min
Quiz: Probability distributions15 questions
R lab - Probability distributions1h
